 pwd command--
 Use the pwd command to find out the path of the current working directory
 
 cd command--
 To navigate through the Linux files and directories, use the cd command
 
 Shortcuts for cd.
 cd .. (with two dots) to move one directory up
cd to go straight to the home folder
cd- (with a hyphen) to move to your previous directory

ls command--
The ls command is used to view the contents of a directory. By default, this command will display the contents of your current working directory

variations of ls.
ls -R will list all the files in the sub-directories as well
ls -a will show the hidden files
ls -al will list the files and directories with detailed information like the permissions, size, owner, etc.

cat command--
 It is used to list the contents of a file on the standard output (sdout).
 
 Here are other ways to use the cat command:

cat > filename creates a new file
cat filename1 filename2>filename3 joins two files (1 and 2) and stores the output of them in a new file (3)
to convert a file to upper or lower case use, cat filename | tr a-z A-Z >output.txt

cp command--
Use the cp command to copy files from the current directory to a different directory.

mv command--
The primary use of the mv command is to move files, although it can also be used to rename files.
Can also used to rename (eg:rename files, the Linux command is mv oldname.ext newname.ext)

mkdir command--
Use mkdir command to make a new directory .

rmdir command--
If you need to delete a directory, use the rmdir command. However, rmdir only allows you to delete empty directories

rm command--
The rm command is used to delete directories and the contents within them. If you only want to delete the directory — as an alternative to rmdir — use rm -r.

Note: Be very careful with this command and double-check which directory you are in. This will delete everything and there is no undo.

touch command--
The touch command allows you to create a blank new file through the Linux command line.

find command--
To find files in the current directory use, find . -name notes.txt
To look for directories use, / -type d -name notes. txt

